We consider extending the sets of L2C and L5 message types by defining two new message types: message type 38 with SV clock correction parameter content and 149-bit binary payload and message type 28 containing a 238-bit binary payload. Incorporating these two new message types could allow for additional capability within L2C and L5, e.g. distress alerting satellite system (DASS) and signal authentication.  Our objectives are two fold, the first objective is to fully utilize and optimize the civil navigation (CNAV) signals (i.e. L2C and L5) bandwidth for GNSS services, the second objective is to maintain the established messaging broadcast intervals for the existing message types defined in IS-200 table 30-XII and IS-705 table 20-XII.  

Each document, IS-200 and IS-705, state that the "Broadcast system of messages is completely arbitrary, but sequenced to provide optimum user performance."  In order to fulfill optimum user performance and fulfill our objectives above, we model the message sequencing problem into two family of linear programming (LP) problems.  The first family of LP problems' objective is to quantify the maximal number of messaging types 28 and 38 while observing the established messaging broadcast intervals as linear constraints.  The solution of the first family of LP problems yields the quantity of each message type considered in the problem, i.e. message type 28, 38, ephemeris types, SV clock correction message types, etc.  The second family of LP problems' objective is to find a messaging sequence which maximizes the number of message type 28 and 38 while observing the established messaging broadcast intervals as linear constraints.  The difference between the first family and the second family  of problems is that the first family does not find a message sequence with the quantified maximal number of messaging types 28 and 38 while observing the established messaging broadcast intervals as linear constraints nor does the first family guarentee that such a sequence with  the quantified maximal number of messaging types 28 and 38 while observing the established messaging broadcast intervals as linear constraints exists.  The second family of problems finds a message sequence which maximizes the number of message type 28 and 38 while observing the established messaging broadcast intervals as linear constraints. 

In this paper, we describe the messaging broadcast intervals for IS-200 and IS-705 and define linear programming and some introductory graph theory concepts.  We then construct the first family of linear programming problems by modeling the messaging broadcast intervals as quantity constraints for a given period of time.  We then set the objective to maximize the number of messge types 28 and 38.  We then pose our conclusions about the potential services offered for DASS and signal authentication from the solutions to the first family of problems.  Next we consider the second family of problems for optimal message sequencing.  We first model the space of potential message sequences as a digraph.  We then make some assumptions about the global position system to yield a messaging sequence that is more desirable for system operations such as sequence periodicity.  Finally we begin to model the messaging broadcast intervals as linear constraints and define the objective, i.e. maximize the number of message types 28 and 38 in the message sequence.  We then present a set of solutions, i.e. message sequences, that has the potential to provide new civil GNSS services from CNAV, observe the current messaging broadcast intervals, and provide optimum user performance.  Finally, the paper provides additional conclusions about the sequences and determines whether or not the conclusions from the first family of LP problems concur with the second family of LP problems, i.e. the existence of a message sequence from the second family of LP problems that was quantified with the first family of LP problems.

The paper then presents some other ideas that could be considered for future work and provides a synopsis of what was achieved in the paper.